1. Azure SQL Database- Azure SQL Database is a relational database (RDBMS) service provided by Microsoft Azure that is widely used by developers when creating 
new applications in the cloud. It is managed completely by Microsoft and is a highly scalable platform-as-a-service (PaaS) designed especially for cloud applications. 
Here, we create a managed database server in the cloud and use the server to deploy our database. The server is a logical construct that acts as the central 
administration point for pooled databases or multiple logins, auditing rules, threat detection policy, and failover groups. This is basically MS SQL Server hosted on 
cloud as a PAAS.


2. Data Lake- A data lake is a centralized repository designed to store vast amounts of raw data in its native format, structured, semi-structured, or unstructured, 
until it's needed for analysis. Unlike traditional databases or data warehouses, data lakes offer flexibility and scale, enabling real-time analytics, machine learning,
and large-scale data processing.
Key characteristics of data lakes include:

-Storage of raw data in its native format
-Support for diverse data types without time-consuming preparation
-Enabling advanced analytics and machine learning
-Real-time data processing capabilities
-Cost-effective storage for large data volumes


3. Azure CosmosDB: zure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL database on Microsoft Azure, built for high availability, low latency, and global scalability. It supports 
multiple data models, including document, key-value, graph, and column-family, making it flexible for diverse applications.


4. Azure Events Streams: Event Hubs is a fully managed, real-time data ingestion service that’s simple, trusted, and scalable. Stream millions of events per second
from any source to build dynamic data pipelines and immediately respond to business challenges. Keep processing data during emergencies using the geo-disaster
recovery and geo-replication features. Queue type storage, publisher and subscriber model. Alternative to Apache Kafka.


5. Azure Data Factory: Microsoft's Orchestration tool. Equivalent to Apache Airflow but provides more resources. An ETL Product.


6. Azure Synapse Analytics: Azure Synapse is an enterprise analytics service that accelerates time to insight across data warehouses and big data systems. Azure 
Synapse brings together the best of SQL technologies used in enterprise data warehousing, Spark technologies used for big data, Data Explorer for log and time 
series analytics, Pipelines for data integration and ETL/ELT, and deep integration with other Azure services such as Power BI, CosmosDB, and AzureML.


7. Azure Stream Analytics: Azure Stream Analytics is a real-time and complex event-processing engine designed for analyzing and processing high volumes of fast
streaming data from multiple sources simultaneously. Azure Stream Analytics is available on Azure IoT Edge runtime, enabling to process data on IoT devices.
